The Ultimate CQC Guide for Metal Gear Solid Delta Snake Eater.
This might be a long video, there's a lot of different categories and mechanics when it comes to CQC.
And then a lot of the different CQC mechanics are related to each other or tie in together.
Snake, try to remember some of the basics of CQC.
3-hit combo. This is probably the most basic CQC mechanic.
Walk up to your enemy and push the CQC button 3 times.
Snake will do 2 punches and 1 kick.
After the kick, the enemy is going to go fall on the ground.
Depending on what difficulty you're on, it's going to take 1 or 2 combos to knock out your enemy.
And remember, the new CQC button for the remake is R2.
Next attack is going to be a dive roll into your enemies.
And I don't know if this technically counts as CQC, but it's a physical attack that can knock out your enemy, so I'm counting it.
It's going to be the top button on whatever.
Whatever controller you're using, on PS5, it's triangle.
While you're walking or running, you can push triangle and you'll dive into your enemy.
Now remember, if you push and hold triangle, you'll fall onto the ground and go into a crawl animation.
And once again, depending on what difficulty you're on, it can take a couple different dive rolls to knock out your enemy.
After a dive roll or a 3-hit combo, your enemy is going to end up on the ground.
This is a great opportunity to get them to freeze.
Rolling into your enemy is going to leave them stunned for a few seconds,
so they will not immediately...
go into alert phase.
This is a good opportunity to get them on the ground and get them to freeze.
If you shoot the tranquilizer Mark 22 gun on the enemy's body,
it's going to take a few seconds for them to knock out and fall asleep.
But here's a good tip or trick.
If you shoot them on the body and then dive roll into them,
it'll immediately activate the tranquilizer and immediately put them to sleep.
Going back to the 3-hit combo,
after the kick, your enemy is going to go flying onto the ground.
And that can be a little unpredictable and a little inconvenient.
So to avoid this, you can either do a single punch or a 2-hit combo punch.
Once you walk up to your enemy, just push R2, the CQC button, either once or twice.
Now after you push the button, just wait a second for a snake to reset back to his normal stance,
and then just push it again.
And you can keep the combo going until your enemy knocks out.
Then you can do another combo.
CQC Slam or Throw Your Enemies Down To The Ground
CQC, slam, or throw your enemies down to the ground.
When you come up to your enemy, you're going to want to push the CQC button,
which is R2, and also point your analog stick in a certain direction.
Pushing the CQC button and pointing the analog stick in a certain direction
at the same exact time will immediately knock the enemy out on the ground.
CQC Pairing
Pairing
Parrying your enemy's physical attacks takes very precise timing and it can be very tricky,
but you just kind of have to anticipate your enemy's attack.
When you're in close range of the enemy and they're in alert phase,
they will throw a physical knife attack towards you.
This is your opportunity to push R2, the CQC button,
and Snake will immediately and automatically parry them, throw them down to the ground.
Now to successively activate most of the CQC attacks in this video,
you need a weapon that is compatible with CQC.
But if you have a medium-sized firearm like the shotgun or any of your rifles,
instead, when you try to CQC parry your enemies,
Snake is just gonna hit the enemy with whatever firearm he has equipped.
Here's how to do it.
So after your enemy is knocked out on the ground,
you may want to move their body because they may be in an inconvenient spot
or they might be visible to another enemy and then raise a caution mode.
So go up to your enemy and push and hold.
It's going to be the square button on PS5.
Hold that square button and then you can drag your enemy to whatever location you want.
And when you pick up an enemy and drop them, keep in mind they will drop an item for you.
This is a good way to get extra supplies, extra ammo, or whatever else you need.
When you come up to an enemy, you can push and hold the CQC button.
Remember, R2, the right trigger.
And Snake will grab the enemy from behind.
And from this position, you have multiple different actions at your disposal.
Probably the most popular one is interrogating your enemies.
So continue to hold the CQC button.
At the same time, push and hold L3.
This is the left analog stick.
You have to push it.
After the enemy either insults Snake or gives him different...
information, you have to decide what to do with your enemy.
And right here, you can see we're going to choke the enemy out by spamming the R2 button.
When you spam the CQC button R2 to knock out your enemy, if you continue to spam it,
Snake will actually snap their neck.
But keep in mind, this does count as a kill.
You kill your enemy.
Now, another popular option amongst players is slitting the enemy's throat.
In the remake, the button is different.
Now, you have to push X on PS5.
On Xbox, I believe it's A.
Whatever button is closest to your thumb.
X on PS5.
Now, once you have your enemy from behind, you can actually drag them to a different location.
You just have to continue pushing the CQC button.
And just push the analog stick.
Whatever direction you want.
But if you do this for too long, you will knock the enemy out.
Now, we're going to talk about throwing the enemy.
Once you have the enemy in a hold, you can either throw them in front of Snake or behind Snake.
And it depends on how creative you get.
You can actually throw your enemies into whatever you want.
While holding the enemy, you're going to want to push the CQC button.
And either up or down on the analog stick.
To either throw the enemy or behind Snake.
Or throw the enemy behind or in front of Snake.
Now, you've already seen it a few different times in this video.
But once the enemy is on the ground, you can point your weapon at them.
And this will get them to freeze.
If you dive roll into your enemy.
If you do a three-hit combo and kick them.
If you grab them and throw them on the ground.
Whatever.
Just make sure they're on the ground.
And you quickly point your weapon at them.
And you'll get them to freeze.
Once you get an enemy soldier to freeze on the ground.
You can actually shoot your weapon around their body.
And they'll shake their booty.
And shake off any items in their inventory.
And give it to Snake.
And then you can kill them.
Now, once you get an enemy soldier to freeze on the ground.
They're going to continue to stay there forever.
Except for two exceptions.
One, you either kill them.
Or two, another enemy soldier sees them on the ground.
And they come to check on them.
And then you show them.
But the easy thing is.
Once you have your orders.
They'll use transcendence.
Something there.
No one here after all.
Freeze.
Some outfits that Snake has are not compatible with CQC.
So make sure you look in the menu and check to see which ones are not compatible with CQC.
Just because it's not compatible with CQC doesn't mean we can't use
all of them.
For example, with the scientist outfit on, we can still do a three hit combo and we can
also still dive roll into our enemies.
We just can't grab our enemies or we can't slam them down to the ground.
So we can't do any fancy CQC moves, but we can still punch them, kick them, and dive
roll.
Once Snake grabs an enemy and holds them from behind, we can actually use the CQC.
We can use that enemy as a human shield against any other enemies.
If you're holding an enemy soldier, other soldiers will not shoot your direction.
Instead, they'll wait.
This is a good opportunity to shoot those soldiers.
But if you take too long, they will try to do a physical attack with their knife.
Now, keep in mind, I said if you're holding an enemy soldier, if you're holding anyone
else like an enemy scientist or a maintenance worker, this will not work.
It's explained in the story that the enemy soldiers treat all the scientists.
Like crap, and they do not care about them.
And that is very evident here.
They have no regard for the scientists health or well being.
They will literally shoot through the scientists to get at Snake.
Hi, Mommy Yamasaki.
Hello.
One of the best tricks in the entire game is blowing up enemy food.
Storage areas.
This will leave every enemy soldier in the vicinity hungry, and they'll be more vulnerable
to snakes physical attacks, meaning it only takes about half the damage to knock them
out with like punches, kicks or any dive rolls.
I'm.
Hamished.
Huh?
What's wrong?
Oh, yeah.
Yeah.
There are numerous different food storage areas throughout the game to take advantage
of this mechanic.
Now keep in mind, once you blow up the food storage with a TNT, you have to leave the
area and come back and you'll know it works because you'll hear the enemy soldiers say
I'm famished.
I haven't eaten in so long.
Stuff like that.
This means you can throw food in the area to distract them or even feed them poisonous
or rotten food.
And Granny Gorky, where you meet up with Granin, you can find the fly camo and this camouflage
makes all enemy soldiers apprehensive and second guess whether or not they want to attack
snake with their physical knife attack.
Oh, my God.
Oh, my gosh.
The cardboard box is probably the most underrated item snake has at his disposal in operation
Snake Eater.
It is perfect for sneaking around trying to get around enemy soldiers and any man-made
environments or buildings.
You can get the attention of enemies, you can distract them and this is the perfect
opportunity.
It leaves them open for any cqc attacks.
So when they come over to check on snake and they pick up the box, this is your opportunity
to use whatever a cqc you want.
You're wrong!
You're Fake!
Now using the cardboard box ties into this next subcategory of distracting enemies.
Just like the box, there is many different items Snake can use to distract enemies and leave them vulnerable for a physical attack or CQC.
Now you've seen me use this mechanic many different times in this video,
but let's go over...
You have to sneak up on your enemy either from behind or the side, make sure they do not see you, point your weapon at them and Snake will say,
Freeze.
They will stop in their tracks, drop their weapon and put their hands up in the air like they just don't care, eh?
Sorry.
They'll put their hands up in the air and you can come to their front side and point your weapon either at their face, their head, or their crotch.
And they'll drop items off their inventory and give it to Snake.
Now this is a little different compared to making them freeze on the ground.
Once you're done with them, you have to dispose of them.
You can't just leave them.
If you do, they'll go into alert or caution mode.
Freeze.
No, wait.
I'm not going to do that.
I'm going to do it.
If you're trying to sneak up on enemies in the wild, especially on harder difficulties,
you have to be really slow and you should take advantage of the stalk button.
This is the L1 button.
If you push and hold this, Snake will walk really slow.
In the original game, this was the D-pad.
It makes Snake really quiet, but also really slow.
So if you're not careful or sneaky enough, the enemy soldiers might hear you or sense you,
they'll turn around, see you, and start attacking,
and you will not have the opportunity to freeze them or hold them up.
So do your best to sneak up on them as sneaky as you can.
Use the stalk button.
So be a sneaky little snake.
A sneaky little snake in the grass.
Sneaky little snake.
Now, I will say it does help tremendously if the enemy soldier is distracted.
For example, if they see another enemy soldier on the ground,
if you throw an item and they're distracted,
this will help tremendously.
If they're already looking into something and they're distracted,
they won't really pay attention to behind them, meaning Snake,
and you can sneak up on them much easier.
Like I was just saying, you have a variety of different items to distract enemies,
and then they are vulnerable for CQC.
Right here, you can see I threw a live snake at an enemy and it is attacking him.
So I'm sneaking around and he's being attacked by a different snake now.
Another useful and iconic item in the Metal Gear series is the book,
which is actually a nudie magazine.
Once they notice it, they'll run up on it and they'll dance like a chicken.
They'll get really, uh, what's the word?
Horny. That's the word. Horny.
They'll get horny. They'll get distracted.
This is your opportunity because they, this is their fault, man.
They're leaving themselves open in the battlefield.
They're vulnerable for an attack.
Boom. Go get them, Tiger.
I mean, Snake.
There you go.
Move.
Oh
What's that?
Alright, I believe that is all the tips and tricks and all the guidance I have to offer when it comes to using CQC, close quarters combat, and Metal Gear Solid Delta Snake Eater.
If there are any mechanics that I missed or any tips or tricks you have to offer that I forgot, feel free to leave them in the comments.
I am always open for constructive criticism, but don't be a dick.
Also keep in mind, all the footage you saw in this tutorial was recorded on Extreme Difficulty.
Sorry, I know this was a long video, there's just a lot of different CQC mechanics to go over.
And hey, what can I say, I love the sound of my silky smooth voice.
Just kidding, I'm sorry, that's not true.
Thank you for watching, love you, goodbye.
Goodbye, goodbye, my friends, goodbye.